<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<reference id="rrefattribencryptkey" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>encryptionKey=key attribute</title>
<shortdesc>The <i>encryptionKey=key</i> attribute specifies an external
encryption key.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>encryptionKey=key database connection URL attribute</indexterm>
<indexterm>encrypting databases<indexterm>encryption key</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>databases<indexterm>encryption attributes</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>attributes<indexterm>encryptionKey</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>The attribute specifies the external key to use to:<ul>
<li>Encrypt a new database</li>
<li>Configure an existing unencrypted database for encryption</li>
<li>Boot an existing encrypted database</li>
</ul>Your application must provide the encryption key. The encryption key value
must be a hexadecimal string at least 16 digits in length (8 bytes), and it must
contain an even number of digits.</p>
<p>For information about data encryption, see "Configuring database encryption"
in the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citsec"></ph>.</p>
</section>
<section><title>Combining with other attributes</title>
<p>When creating a new database, you must combine the <i>encryptionKey=key</i>
attribute with the <i><xref href="rrefattrib26867.dita">create=true</xref></i>
and <i><xref href="rrefattrib15290.dita">dataEncryption=true</xref></i>
attributes.</p>
<p>When you configure an existing unencrypted database for encryption, the
<i>encryptionKey=key</i> attribute must be combined with the
<i>dataEncryption=true</i> attribute. For an existing, unencrypted database for
which authentication and SQL authorization are both enabled, only the 
<xref href="rrefattrib26867.dita">database owner</xref> can perform encryption. 
See "Configuring user authentication" and "Configuring user authorization"
in the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citsec"></ph> for more information.</p>
<p>The <i>encryptionKey=key</i> attribute can optionally be combined with the
<i><xref href="rrefattrib88843.dita">encryptionProvider=providerName</xref></i>,
<i><xref href="rrefattrib60346.dita">encryptionAlgorithm=algorithm</xref></i>,
and/or <i><xref href="rrefattribencryptkeylength.dita">encryptionKeyLength=length</xref></i>
attributes.</p>
</section>
<example><title>Examples</title>
<codeblock><b>-- create a new encrypted database
jdbc:derby:newDB;create=true;dataEncryption=true;
   encryptionKey=6162636465666768
-- configure an existing unencrypted database for encryption
jdbc:derby:salesdb;dataEncryption=true;encryptionKey=6162636465666768
-- boot an encrypted database
jdbc:derby:encryptedDB;encryptionKey=6162636465666768</b></codeblock>
</example>
</refbody>
</reference>
