<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<reference id="rrefattrib17246" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>databaseName=nameOfDatabase attribute</title>
<shortdesc>The <i>databaseName=nameOfDatabase</i> attribute specifies a database
path name for a connection.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>databaseName=nameOfDatabase database connection URL attribute</indexterm>
<indexterm>connecting to a database (using databaseName attribute)</indexterm>
<indexterm>databases<indexterm>connecting to</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>attributes<indexterm>databaseName</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>You can use this attribute instead of specifying the database name
after the subprotocol.</p>
<p>The <i>nameOfDatabase</i> value can be either an absolute path name or a
path name relative to <i>derby.system.home</i>. For example,
<codeph>thisDB</codeph>, <codeph>databases/thisDB</codeph>, and
<codeph>c:/databases/2014/january/thisDB</codeph> can all be valid values.</p>
<p>The path separator in the connection URL is a forward slash
(<codeph>/</codeph>), even in Windows path names. The <i>nameOfDatabase</i>
value cannot contain a colon (<codeph>:</codeph>), except for the colon after
the drive name in a Windows path name.</p>
<p>For example, these URL (and <i>Properties</i> object) combinations are
equivalent:
<ul>
<li><i>jdbc:derby:toursDB</i></li>
<li><i>jdbc:derby:;databaseName=toursDB</i></li>
<li><i>jdbc:derby:</i> (with a property <i>databaseName</i> and its value set
to <i>toursDB</i> in the <i>Properties</i> object passed into a connection
request)</li>
</ul></p> 
<p>If you use a subsubprotocol to specify the database (for example,
<i>memory</i> for an in-memory database), include the subsubprotocol as part of
the <i>databaseName</i> attribute specification. For example:</p>
<codeblock><b>jdbc:derby:;databaseName=memory:myDB</b></codeblock>
<p>If the database name is specified both in the URL (as a subname) and as an
attribute, the database name set as the subname has priority. For example, the
following database connection URL connects to <i>toursDB</i>:</p> 
<codeblock><b>jdbc:derby:toursDB;databaseName=flightsDB</b></codeblock> 
<p>Allowing the database name to be set as an attribute allows the
<i>getPropertyInfo</i> method to return a list of choices for the database name
based on the set of databases known to
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph>. For more information,
see <i><xref href="rrefjdbc34954.dita"/>.</i></p>
</section>
<section><title>Combining with other attributes</title>
<p>You can combine this attribute with all other attributes.</p>
</section>
<example><title>Example</title>
<codeblock><b>jdbc:derby:;databaseName=newDB;create=true</b></codeblock>
</example>
</refbody>
</reference>

