<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rrefproperstormin">
<title>derby.storage.minimumRecordSize</title>
<shortdesc>The <i>derby.storage.minimumRecordSize</i> property indicates the
minimum user row size in bytes for on-disk database pages for tables when you
are creating a table.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>derby.storage.minimumRecordSize property</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog><refbody>
<section>
<p>This property ensures that there is enough room for a row to grow on a page
when updated without having to overflow. This is generally most useful for
VARCHAR and VARCHAR FOR BIT DATA data types and for tables that are updated
often, in which the rows start small and grow due to updates. Reserving the
space at the time of insertion minimizes row overflow due to updates, but it can
result in wasted space. Set the property prior to issuing the CREATE TABLE
statement.</p>
<p>See also
<i><xref href="rrefproper28026.dita">derby.storage.pageReservedSpace</xref></i>.</p>
</section>
<section><title>Valid conglomerates</title>
<p>Tables only.</p>
</section>
<section><title>Default</title>
<p>12 bytes.</p>
</section>
<section><title>Minimum value</title>
<p>12 bytes.</p>
</section>
<section><title>Maximum value</title>
<p><i><xref href="rrefproper40688.dita">derby.storage.pageSize</xref></i> * (1
- <i><xref href="rrefproper28026.dita">derby.storage.pageReservedSpace</xref></i>/100) "
100.</p>
<p>If you set this property to a value outside the legal range, <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> uses
the default value.</p>
</section>
<example><title>Example</title>
<codeblock><b><ph>-- changing the default for the system</ph>
derby.storage.minimumRecordSize=128
<ph>-- changing the default for the database</ph>
CALL SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_SET_DATABASE_PROPERTY( 
    'derby.storage.minimumRecordSize',
    '128')
</b></codeblock>
</example>
<section><title>Dynamic or static</title>
<p>This property is dynamic; if you change it while <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> is running,
the change takes effect immediately. For information about dynamic changes
to properties, see <xref href="crefproperdynstat.dita"/>.</p>
</section></refbody></reference>
