<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<reference id="rrefproper25581" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>derby.authentication.server</title>
<shortdesc>The <i>derby.authentication.server</i> property specifies the
location of the external directory service that provides user authentication for
the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> system as defined
with the <i>derby.authentication.provider</i> property.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>derby.authentication.server property</indexterm>
<indexterm>LDAP<indexterm>configuring</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>For LDAP, specify the host name and port number. See
<i><xref href="rrefproper13766.dita">derby.authentication.provider</xref></i>
for more information.</p>
<p>The server must be known on the network.</p>
<p>For more information about external user authentication, see "Configuring
LDAP authentication" in the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citsec"></ph>.</p>
</section>
<section><title>Default</title>
<p>Not applicable. Note that if the protocol type is unspecified, it defaults to
LDAP.</p> </section>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title>
<codeblock><b>derby.authentication.server=
[{ ldap: | ldaps: | nisplus: }]
[//]

{
<b><i>    hostname</i></b> [ :<b><i>portnumber </i></b>] |
<b><i>    nisServerName</i></b>/<b><i>nisDomain</i></b>
}</b></codeblock> </refsyn>
<example><title>Example</title>
<codeblock><b><ph>-- system-wide property
##LDAP example</ph>
derby.authentication.server=godfrey:9090
<ph>##LDAP example</ph>
derby.authentication.server=ldap://godfrey:9090
<ph>##LDAP example</ph>
derby.authentication.server=//godfrey:9090
<ph>##LDAP over SSL example</ph>
derby.authentication.server=ldaps://godfrey:636/
<ph>-- database-wide property</ph>
CALL SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_SET_DATABASE_PROPERTY(
    'derby.authentication.server',
    'godfrey:9090')</b></codeblock> </example>
<section><title>Dynamic or static</title>
<p>Static. For system-wide properties, you must reboot
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> for the change to take
effect. For database-wide properties, you must reboot the database for the
change to take effect.</p> </section>
</refbody>
</reference>

