<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<reference id="rrefsyscspeekidentity" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_PEEK_AT_IDENTITY system function</title>
<shortdesc>The <codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_PEEK_AT_IDENTITY</codeph> function
allows users to observe the next value which will be issued for an identity
column.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>This function can be used in databases which have been fully upgraded to
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> Release 10.11 or
higher. (See "Upgrading a database" in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citdevelop"></ph> for more information.) In a
database which has been fully upgraded to Release 10.11 or higher, identity
values are produced by internal, system-managed sequence generators.
<codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_PEEK_AT_IDENTITY</codeph> allows users to observe the
next identity value without having to query the SYSSEQUENCES system table.</p>
<p>This function has no meaning in a database which is at Release 10.10 or
earlier.</p>
<p>Querying the SYSSEQUENCES system table does not actually return the current
identity value; it only returns an upper bound on that value, that is, the end
of the chunk of identity values which has been preallocated but not actually
used. The <codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_PEEK_AT_IDENTITY</codeph> function shows you
the very next value which will be inserted into a table. Users should never
directly query the SYSSEQUENCES table, because that will cause sequence
generator concurrency to slow drastically.</p>
</section>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title>
<codeblock>BIGINT SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_PEEK_AT_IDENTITY(IN SCHEMANAME VARCHAR(128),
IN TABLENAME VARCHAR(128))</codeblock>
<p>As with all system functions, schema and object name arguments are
case-sensitive.</p>
</refsyn>
<section><title>Execute privileges</title>
<p>By default, all users have execute privileges on this function.</p>
</section>
<example><title>Example</title>
<codeblock>VALUES SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_PEEK_AT_IDENTITY('APP', 'orders');</codeblock>
</example>
</refbody>
</reference>
