<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<reference id="rrefproper13766" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>derby.authentication.provider</title>
<shortdesc>The <i>derby.authentication.provider</i> property specifies the
authentication provider for
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> user
authentication.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>derby.authentication.provider property</indexterm>
<indexterm>Authentication provider<indexterm>specifying</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>Legal values include:</p>
<ul>
<li>NATIVE:<i>credentialsDB</i>
<p>NATIVE authentication using <i>credentialsDB</i>, a dedicated database, to
store user credentials. This value must be set by using system-wide Java Virtual
Machine (JVM) properties or by using the <i>derby.properties</i> file; it cannot
be set in the database by using the SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_SET_DATABASE_PROPERTY
system procedure. When this system-wide value is set, <i>credentialsDB</i> is
used to authenticate all operations. Individual databases can override this
directive by specifying their own value for
<i>derby.authentication.provider</i>.</p>
<p>The value of <i>credentialsDB</i> must be a valid name for a database.</p>
</li>
<li>NATIVE:<i>credentialsDB</i>:LOCAL
<p>NATIVE authentication using <i>credentialsDB</i> for system-wide operations,
but using an individual database's <xref href="rrefsistabssysusers.dita"/> to
authenticate connections to that database. This value must be set by using 
system-wide JVM properties or by using the <i>derby.properties</i> file; it
cannot be set in the database by using the SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_SET_DATABASE_PROPERTY
procedure.</p>
</li>
<li>LDAP   <p>An external LDAP directory service.</p></li>
<li>A complete Java class name   <p>A user-defined class that provides user
authentication.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>For more information about these settings, see "Configuring NATIVE
authentication" and "Configuring LDAP authentication" in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citsec"></ph>.</p>
<p>To enable any <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> user
authentication setting other than NATIVE, you must set the
<i><xref href="rrefproper27467.dita">derby.connection.requireAuthentication</xref></i>
property to true. If you specify NATIVE authentication,
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> behaves as if the
<i>derby.connection.requireAuthentication</i> and
<i><xref href="rrefpropersqlauth.dita">derby.database.sqlAuthorization</xref></i>
properties were also set.</p>
<p>When using NATIVE authentication, you can also set the following related
properties:</p>
<ul>
<li><i><xref href="rrefproperpasswordmillis.dita"/></i></li>
<li><i><xref href="rrefproperpasswordthreshold.dita"/></i></li>
</ul>
<p>When using NATIVE authentication, the database owner calls the
<codeph><xref href="rrefnativecreateuserproc.dita">SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_CREATE_USER</xref></codeph>
system procedure to create users, and can also call the following additional user
management procedures:</p>
<ul>
<li><codeph><xref href="rrefnativedropuserproc.dita">SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_DROP_USER</xref></codeph></li>
<li><codeph><xref href="rrefnativeresetpasswordproc.dita">SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_RESET_PASSWORD</xref></codeph></li>
</ul>
<p>When using NATIVE authentication, any user can call the
<codeph><xref href="rrefnativemodifypasswordproc.dita">SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_MODIFY_PASSWORD</xref></codeph>
system procedure to change that user's password.</p>
<p>For more information about user authentication, see "Configuring user
authentication" in the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citsec"></ph>.</p>
<p>When using an external authentication service provider (LDAP), you must also
set:</p>
<ul>
<li><i><xref href="rrefproper25581.dita">derby.authentication.server</xref></i></li>
</ul>
<p>When using LDAP, you can set other LDAP-specific properties. See also:</p>
<ul>
<li><i><xref href="rrefproperauthdn.dita"/></i></li>
<li><i><xref href="rrefproperauthpw.dita"/></i></li>
<li><i><xref href="rrefproper37341.dita"/></i></li>
<li><i><xref href="rrefproper26978.dita"/></i></li>
</ul>
<p>Alternatively, you can write your own class to provide a different external
authentication service. This class must implement the public interface
<i>org.apache.derby.authentication.UserAuthenticator</i> and throw exceptions
of the type <i>java.sql.SQLException</i> where appropriate. Using a user-defined
class makes <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> adaptable
to various naming and directory services. For example, the class could allow
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> to hook up to an
existing user authentication service that uses any of the standard directory and
naming service providers to JNDI.</p>
</section>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title>
<codeblock><b>derby.authentication.provider={ NATIVE:<i>credentialsDB</i> | 
                                NATIVE:<i>credentialsDB</i>:LOCAL |
                                LDAP | 
                                <b><i>classProviderName</i></b> }</b></codeblock>
</refsyn>
<section><title>Default</title> <p>No authentication.</p> </section>
<example><title>Example</title> <codeblock><b>-- system-wide property
derby.authentication.provider=NATIVE:MyCredsDB:LOCAL
-- database-wide property
CALL SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_SET_DATABASE_PROPERTY(
    'derby.authentication.provider',
    'LDAP')</b></codeblock>
</example>
<section><title>Dynamic or static</title>
<p>Static. For system-wide properties, you must reboot
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> for the change to take
effect. For database-wide properties, you must reboot the database for the
change to take effect.</p>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>

