<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rrefproper39325">
<title>derby.database.readOnlyAccessUsers</title>
<shortdesc>The <i>derby.database.readOnlyAccessUsers</i> property, one of the
user authorization properties, specifies a list of users to which read-only
access to a database is granted.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>derby.database.readOnlyAccessUsers property</indexterm>
<indexterm>User authorization<indexterm>configuring</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog><refbody>
<section>
<p>The list consists of user names separated by commas. Do not put spaces after
the commas.</p>
<p>When set as a system property, specifies a list of users for which read-only
access to all the databases in the system is granted.</p>
<p>A malformed list of user names raises an exception. Do not specify a user
both in this property and in
<i><xref href="rrefproper25025.dita">derby.database.fullAccessUsers</xref></i>.</p>
<note>User names, called authorization identifiers, follow the rules of
<i><xref href="crefsqlj34834.dita">SQLIdentifier</xref></i>s and can be
delimited. Specifying a user name that does not follow these rules raises an
exception.</note>
</section>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title>
<codeblock><b><b>-- database-level property</b>
CALL SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_SET_DATABASE_PROPERTY(
    'derby.database.readOnlyAccessUsers',
    '<b><i>commaSeparatedListOfUsers</i></b>')</b></codeblock>
</refsyn>
<example><title>Example</title>
<codeblock><b><ph>-- database-level property</ph>
CALL SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_SET_DATABASE_PROPERTY(
    'derby.database.readOnlyAccessUsers', 'ralph,guest')
<ph>-- system-level property</ph>
derby.database.readOnlyAccessUsers=ralph,guest</b></codeblock>
</example>
<section><title>Dynamic or static</title>
<p>Dynamic. Current connection is not affected, but all future connections
are affected. For information about dynamic changes to properties, see
<xref href="crefproperdynstat.dita"/>.</p>
</section></refbody></reference>
