<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<reference id="rrefattrib26867" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>create=true attribute</title>
<shortdesc>The <i>create=true</i> attribute creates the standard database
specified within the database connection URL
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> system and then
connects to it.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>create=true database connection URL attribute</indexterm>
<indexterm>databases<indexterm>creating</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>attributes<indexterm>create</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>If the database cannot be created, the error appears in the error
log and the connection attempt fails with an <i>SQLException</i> indicating
that the database cannot be found.</p>
<p>If the database already exists, the attribute creates a connection to the
existing database, and an <i>SQLWarning</i> is issued.</p>
<p>JDBC does not remove the database on failure to connect at create time if
failure occurs after the database call occurs. If a database connection URL used
<i>create=true</i> and the connection fails to be created, check for the
database directory. If it exists, remove it and its contents before the next
attempt to create the database.</p> 
</section>
<section><title>Database owner</title>
<p>When the database is created, the current authorization identifier becomes
the database owner (see the
<i><xref href="rrefattrib10035.dita">user=userName</xref></i> attribute). If
authentication and SQL authorization are both enabled (see "Configuring user
authentication" and "Configuring user authorization" in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citsec"></ph>), only the database owner can
<xref href="rrefattrib16471.dita">shut down</xref> or
<xref href="rrefattribdrop.dita">drop</xref> the database,
<xref href="rrefattrib15290.dita">encrypt</xref> it, reencrypt it with a new
<xref href="rrefattribnewbootpw.dita">boot password</xref> or new
<xref href="rrefattribnewencryptkey.dita">encryption key</xref>, or perform a
full upgrade. If authentication is not enabled, and no user is supplied, the
database owner defaults to "APP", which is also the name of the default schema
(see <xref href="rrefsqlj32268.dita"></xref>).</p>
</section>
<section><title>Combining with other attributes</title>
<p>You must specify a <i>databaseName</i> (after the subprotocol or
subsubprotocol in the database connection URL) or a
<i><xref href="rrefattrib17246.dita">databaseName=nameofDatabase</xref></i>
attribute with this attribute.</p>
<p>You can combine this attribute with other attributes. To specify a locale
when creating a database, use the
<i><xref href="rrefattrib56769.dita">territory=ll_CC</xref></i> attribute.</p>
</section>
<example><title>Examples</title>
<p>Creating a file system database:</p>
<codeblock><b><ph>-- create a file system database</ph>
jdbc:derby:sampleDB;create=true
<ph>-- create a file system database using the databaseName attribute</ph>
jdbc:derby:;databaseName=newDB;create=true
<ph>-- create an in-memory database using the embedded driver</ph>
jdbc:derby:memory:myInMemDB;create=true
<ph>-- create an in-memory database using the databaseName attribute</ph>
jdbc:derby:;databaseName=memory:myInMemDB;create=true
<ph>-- create an in-memory database using the Network Server</ph>
jdbc:derby://localhost:1527/memory:myInMemDB;create=true</b></codeblock>
<p>See "Using in-memory databases" in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citdevelop"/> for information on creating
in-memory databases.</p>
</example>
</refbody>
</reference>

