<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="ctunoptimz33368">
<title>What is an index?</title>
<shortdesc>An index is a database structure that provides quick lookup of data
in a column or columns of a table.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>Indexes<indexterm>definition</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Indexes<indexterm>when they are useful</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>For example, a <codeph>Flights</codeph> table in a <codeph>travelDB</codeph>
database has three indexes:</p>
<ul>
<li>An index on the <codeph>orig_airport</codeph> column (called
<codeph>OrigIndex</codeph>)</li>
<li>An index on the <codeph>dest_airport</codeph> column (called
<codeph>DestIndex</codeph>)</li>
<li>An index enforcing the <codeph>primary key</codeph> constraint on the
<codeph>flight_id</codeph> and <codeph>segment_number</codeph> columns (which
has a system-generated name)</li>
</ul>
<p>This means there are three separate structures that provide shortcuts into
the <codeph>Flights</codeph> table. Let's look at one of those structures,
<codeph>OrigIndex</codeph>.</p>
<p><codeph>OrigIndex</codeph> stores every value in the
<codeph>orig_airport</codeph> column, plus information on how to retrieve the
entire corresponding row for each value.</p> 
<p>For every row in <codeph>Flights</codeph>, there is an entry in
<codeph>OrigIndex</codeph> that includes the value of the
<codeph>orig_airport</codeph> column and the address of the row itself. The
entries are stored in ascending order by the <codeph>orig_airport</codeph>
values.</p>
<p>When an index includes more than one column, the first column is the main
one by which the entries are ordered. For example, the index on
(<codeph>flight_id</codeph>, <codeph>segment_number</codeph>) is ordered first
by <codeph>flight_id</codeph>. If there is more than one
<codeph>flight_id</codeph> of the same value, those entries are then ordered by
<codeph>segment_number</codeph>. An excerpt from the entries in the index might
look like this:</p>
<codeblock>'AA1111' 1
'AA1111' 2
'AA1112' 1
'AA1113' 1
'AA1113' 2</codeblock>
<p>Indexes are only sometimes helpful. This particular index is useful when a
statement's WHERE clause is looking for rows for which the value of
<codeph>orig_airport</codeph> is some specific value or range of values.
SELECTs, UPDATEs, and DELETEs can all have WHERE clauses.</p>
<p>For example, <codeph>OrigIndex</codeph> is helpful for statements such as the
following:</p>
<codeblock><b>SELECT *
FROM Flights
WHERE orig_airport = 'SFO'

SELECT *
FROM Flights
WHERE orig_airport &lt; 'BBB'

SELECT *
FROM Flights
WHERE orig_airport &gt;= 'MMM'</b></codeblock>
<p><codeph>DestIndex</codeph> is helpful for statements such as the
following:</p>
<codeblock><b>SELECT *
FROM Flights
WHERE dest_airport = 'SCL'</b></codeblock>
<p>The primary key index (on <codeph>flight_id</codeph> and
<codeph>segment_number</codeph>) is helpful for statements such as the
following:</p>
<codeblock><b>SELECT *
FROM Flights
WHERE flight_id = 'AA1111'

SELECT *
FROM Flights
WHERE flight_id BETWEEN 'AA1111' AND 'AA1115'

SELECT *
FROM FlightAvailability AS fa, Flights AS fts
WHERE flight_date &gt; CURRENT_DATE
AND fts.flight_id = fa.flight_id
AND fts.segment_number = fa.segment_number</b></codeblock>
<p><xref href="ctunoptimz39106.dita"/> discusses why the indexes are helpful for
these statements but not for others.</p>
</conbody></concept>
