<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="ctunstats57373" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>When cardinality statistics are automatically updated</title>
<shortdesc>For the following operations that you perform on a table,
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> automatically creates
new statistics or updates existing statistics.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>cardinality statistics<indexterm>automatic updates</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>statistics<indexterm>cardinality, automatic updates</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<ul>
<li><i>When you create a new index on an existing non-empty table</i>
<p>Statistics are automatically created for only the new index.</p></li>
<li><i>When you add a primary key, unique, or foreign key constraint to an
existing non-empty table</i>
<p>If there is no existing index that can be used for the new key or constraint,
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> automatically creates
statistics for only the new indexes.</p></li>
<li><i>During query compilation</i>
<p>If the index cardinality statistics for the tables involved in the query are
deemed to be out of date, the query compiler will schedule a job that updates
them in a separate thread.</p></li>
<li><i>When you run the <codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_COMPRESS_TABLE</codeph> system
procedure</i>
<p>Statistics are created automatically for all indexes if the statistics do not
already exist.</p></li>
<li>When you drop a column that is part of a table's index, the statistics for
the affected index are dropped. Statistics are automatically updated for the
other indexes on the table.</li>
</ul>
<p>The thread that updates the statistics in the background during query
compilation may affect the performance of the user threads. If this causes
problems, you can disable automatic updating of statistics by setting the
database property <i>derby.storage.indexStats.auto</i> to false.</p>
<p>To diagnose problems with automatic updating of index statistics, an
application can set the database property
<i>derby.storage.indexStats.log</i> to true. When this property is set, the
thread that updates the statistics will write messages to the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> system log
(<codeph>derby.log</codeph>) every time it performs a task. You can obtain more
detailed logging information by setting the property
<i>derby.storage.indexStats.trace</i>, which also lets you specify where the
trace output should appear.</p>
<p>See the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph> for details about these
properties.</p>
<p>To remove all statistics in case of problems, call the
<codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_DROP_STATISTICS</codeph> system procedure. See the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph> for details about this procedure
and about <codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_COMPRESS_TABLE</codeph>.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
