<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
 
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="ctundepth1002853" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Create useful indexes</title>
<shortdesc>Indexes are useful when a query contains a WHERE clause.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>indexes<indexterm>guidance, creating</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Without a WHERE clause,
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> is <i>supposed</i> to
return all the data in the table, and so a table scan is the correct (if not
desirable) behavior. (For more information, see
<xref href="ctundepth36205.dita"/>.)</p>
<p><ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> creates indexes
on tables in the following situations:</p>
<ul>
<li>When you define a primary key, unique, or foreign key constraint on a
table. See "CONSTRAINT clause" in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph> for more information.</li>
<li>When you explicitly create an index on a table with a CREATE INDEX
statement.</li>
</ul>
<p>For an index to be useful for a particular statement, one of the columns
in the statement's WHERE clause must be the first column in the index's key.</p>
<p><note>For a complete discussion of how indexes work and when they are useful,
see <xref href="ctunoptimz33368.dita"/> and
<xref href="ctunoptimz30217.dita"/>.</note></p>
<p>Indexes provide some other benefits as well:</p>
<ul>
<li>If all the data requested are in the index,
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> does not have to go to
the table at all. (See <xref href="ctunoptimz30768.dita"/>.)</li>
<li>For operations that require a sort (ORDER BY), if
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> uses the index to
retrieve the data, it does not have to perform a separate sorting step for some
of these operations in some situations. (See
<xref href="ctunoptimz27036.dita"/>.)</li>
</ul>
<p>See "CREATE INDEX statement" in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph> for details on creating indexes,
including restrictions on key size.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
