<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="ctundepth26674">
<title>Overview of RunTimeStatistics</title>
<shortdesc>When RUNTIMESTATISTICS is turned on for a connection,
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> maintains information
about the execution plan for each statement executed within the connection
(except for COMMIT) until the attribute is turned off.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>RunTimeStatistics<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>For the most recently executed query, RUNTIMESTATISTICS returns information
about:  
<ul>
<li><i>The length of the compile time and the execute time</i>  
<p>This can help in benchmarking queries.</p></li>
<li><i>The statement execution plan</i>  
<p>This is a description of result set nodes, whether an index was used, what
the join order was, how many rows qualified at each node, and how much time was
spent in each node. This information can help you determine whether you need to
add indexes or rewrite queries.</p></li>
</ul></p>
<p>The exact details presented, as well as the format of presentation, can
change. There are two techniques for retrieving the RUNTIMESTATISTICS
information:</p>
<ul>
<li>Call <codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_GET_RUNTIMESTATISTICS</codeph>, which
retrieves the RUNTIMESTATISTICS information as formatted text.</li>
<li>Before executing your statements, call
<codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_SET_XPLAIN_SCHEMA</codeph>, which causes
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> to store the
RUNTIMESTATISTICS information in the SYSXPLAIN database tables. These tables can
be queried later to retrieve the data.</li>
</ul>
</conbody></concept>
