<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="cdevdvlp40350" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Conventions for specifying the database path name</title>
<shortdesc>When you access databases from the file system (instead of from
the classpath or a jar file), any path name that is not absolute is interpreted
as relative to the system directory.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>databases<indexterm>convention for specifying connection
path name when outside system</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>directory subsubprotocol</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The path name must do one of the following:</p>
<ul>
<li>Refer to a previously created
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> database</li>
<li>Specify the <i>create=true</i> attribute</li>
</ul>
<p>The path separator in the path name is a forward slash (<codeph>/</codeph>),
even in Windows path names. The path name cannot contain a colon
(<codeph>:</codeph>), except for the colon after the drive name in a Windows
path name. See "Syntax of database connection URLs for applications with
embedded databases" in the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph> for the
full syntax.</p>
<p>You can specify only databases that are local to the machine on which the
JVM is running. NFS file systems on UNIX and remote shared files on Windows
(//<i>machine/directory</i>) are not guaranteed to work. Using <i>derby.system.home</i> and
forward slashes is recommended practice for platform independent applications.</p>
<p>If two different database path name values, relative or absolute, refer to
the same actual directory, they are considered equivalent. This means that
connections to a database through its absolute path name and its relative path
name are connections to the same database. Within
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph>, the name of the
database is defined by the canonical path of its directory from
<i>java.io.File.getCanonicalPath</i>.</p>
<p><ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> automatically
creates any intermediate directory that does not already exist when creating
a new database. If it cannot create the intermediate directory, the database
creation fails.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
