<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="cdevsetprop824451">
<title>Scope of properties</title>
<shortdesc>You use properties to configure a
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> system, database, or
conglomerate.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>properties<indexterm>scope of</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>properties<indexterm>system-wide scope</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>properties<indexterm>database-wide scope</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<ul>
<li><i>system-wide</i>  
<p>Most properties can be set on a <i>system-wide</i> basis; that is, you set a
property for the entire system and all its databases and conglomerates, if this
is applicable. Some properties, such as error handling and automatic booting,
can be configured only in this way, since they apply to the entire system. (For
information about the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph>
system, see <xref href="cdevdvlp27610.dita#cdevdvlp27610"></xref>.)</p></li>
<li><i>database-wide</i>  
<p>Some properties can also be set on a <i>database-wide</i> basis. That is, the
property is true for the selected database only and not for the other databases
in the system unless it is set individually within each of them.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>For properties that affect conglomerates, changing the value of such
properties affects only conglomerates that are created after the change.
Conglomerates created earlier are unaffected.</p>
<p><note>Database-wide properties are stored in the database and are simpler for
deployment, in the sense that they follow the database. System-wide properties can be more practical during the development
process.</note></p>
</conbody></concept>
