<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="ctoolsijtools16011" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Database connection URLs</title>
<shortdesc>A JDBC URL provides a way of identifying a database so that the
appropriate driver recognizes it and connects to it. In the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> documentation, a JDBC
URL is referred to as a database connection URL.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>After the driver is loaded, an application must specify the correct database
connection URL to connect to a specific database. The
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> database connection URL
allows you to accomplish tasks other than simply connecting.</p>
<p>For complete information about the database connection URL, see
the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph> and the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citdevelop"></ph>.</p>
<p>A JDBC URL always starts with <codeph>jdbc:</codeph>. After that, the format
for the database connection URL depends on the JDBC driver.</p>
<p>Here is the format for the database connection URL for connecting to an
existing <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> database
using the embedded driver:   <ul>
<li><codeph>jdbc:derby:<i>databaseName</i>;<i>URLAttributes</i></codeph></li>
</ul></p>
<p>The format for the database connection URL for connecting to an existing <ph
conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> database using the
Network Client is:   <ul>
<li><codeph>jdbc:derby://<i>host:port</i>/<i>databaseName</i>;<i>URLAttributes</i></codeph></li>
</ul></p>
<p>The italicized items stand for something the user fills in:   <ul>
<li><i id="rtoolsijtools16246">databaseName</i>   <p>The name of the database
you want to connect to. The <i>databaseName</i> value can be either an absolute
path name or a path name relative to <i>derby.system.home</i>, the system
directory. The path separator in the connection URL is a forward slash
(<codeph>/</codeph>), even in Windows path names. The database name value cannot
contain a colon (<codeph>:</codeph>), except for the colon after the drive name
in a Windows path name.</p></li>
<li><i id="rtoolsijtools12861">URLAttributes</i>   <p>One or more of the supported
attributes of the database connection URL, such as <i>upgrade=true</i>, <i>create=true</i> or <i>territory=ll_CC</i>.
For more information, see "Setting attributes for the database connection URL"
in the <cite><ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph></cite>.</p></li>
<li><i>host</i>   <p>The name of the machine where the server is running.
It can be the name of the machine or the address.</p></li>
<li><i id="rtoolsijtools27024">port</i>   <p>The port number used by the server
framework</p></li>
</ul></p>
<section id="ctoolsabtproto"><title>About Protocols</title> <p>Officially,
the portion of the database connection URL called the protocol is
<codeph>jdbc:</codeph>, just as <codeph>http://</codeph> is a protocol in web
URLs. After that, <codeph>derby:</codeph> is officially the subprotocol, and
anything else between <codeph>jdbc:derby:</codeph> and <i>databaseName</i> is
called the subsubprotocol. See "Syntax of database connection URLs for
applications with embedded databases" in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph> for details. However, the
subprotocol and subsubprotocol are informally considered part of the protocol.
When you see references to the protocol in this manual, consider the protocol to
be everything that comes before <i>databaseName</i>.</p></section>
</conbody>
</concept>
