<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rtoolsijcomref40155">
<title>Syntax for identifiers in ij commands</title>
<shortdesc>Some <codeph>ij</codeph> commands require identifier
arguments.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
</prolog><refbody>
<section>
<p>These identifiers exist within the scope of <codeph>ij</codeph> only and are
distinct from any identifiers used in SQL commands, except in the case of the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref36618.dita">Get Cursor</xref></codeph>
command. The <codeph>Get Cursor</codeph> command specifies a cursor name to use
in creating a result set.</p>
<p><codeph>ij</codeph> does not recognize or permit delimited identifiers in
<codeph>ij</codeph> commands. They can be used in SQL commands.</p>
</section>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title>
<codeblock><b><i>Identifier</i> [ @ <i>connectionName</i> ]</b></codeblock>
<p>These <codeph>ij</codeph> identifiers are case-insensitive. They must begin
with a letter in the range A-Z, and they can consist of any number of letters in
the range A-Z, digits in the range 0-9, and underscore (<codeph>_</codeph>)
characters.</p>
<p>An identifier can optionally use an at sign (<codeph>@</codeph>) followed
by a <i>connectionName</i>. Spaces on either side of the <codeph>@</codeph> sign
are optional. If you specify a <i>connectionName</i>, you can refer to databases
on different connections. This capability enables you to perform tasks such as
copying data from one database to another. For an example of copying data
between databases, see <xref href="rtoolsijcomref30679.dita"/>. For other
examples, see <xref href="rtoolsijcomref37862.dita"/>,
<xref href="rtoolsijcomref36618.dita"/>, and
<xref href="rtoolsijcomref62772.dita"/>.</p>
</refsyn>
<example><title>Examples</title>
<p>These are valid <codeph>ij</codeph> identifiers:</p>
<codeblock>foo1
exampleIdentifier12345
another_one
myId@connection0
id2 @ connection1</codeblock>
</example></refbody></reference>
