<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rtoolsdblookoptions">
<title>dblook options</title>
<shortdesc>The <codeph>dblook</codeph> utility options include the
following.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>dblook<indexterm>options</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<dl>
<dlentry><dt><codeph>-z <i>schemaName</i></codeph></dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the schema to which the DDL should be restricted. Only objects
with the specified schema are included in the DDL file.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt><codeph>-t <i>tableOne tableTwo</i> ...</codeph></dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the tables to which the DDL should be restricted. All tables
with a name from this list will be included in the DDL file subject to
<codeph>-z</codeph> limitations, as will the DDL for any keys, checks, or
indexes on which the table definitions depend.</p>
<p>Additionally, if the statement text of any triggers or views includes a
reference to any of the listed table names, the DDL for that trigger/view will
also be generated, subject to <codeph>-z</codeph> limitations. If a table is not
included in this list, then neither the table nor any of its keys, checks, or
indexes will be included in the final DDL. If this option is not provided, all
database objects will be generated, subject to <codeph>-z</codeph> limitations.
Table names are separated by whitespace.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt><codeph>-td</codeph></dt>
<dd><p>Specifies a statement delimiter for SQL statements generated by
<codeph>dblook</codeph>. If a statement delimiter option is not specified, the
default is the semicolon (<codeph>;</codeph>). At the end of each DDL statement,
the delimiter is printed, followed by a new line.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt><codeph>-o <i>filename</i></codeph></dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the file where the generated DDL is written. If this file is
not specified, it defaults to the console (that is, standard
<codeph>System.out</codeph>).</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt><codeph>-append</codeph></dt>
<dd><p>Prevents overwriting the DDL output (<codeph>-o</codeph> option, if
specified) and <codeph>dblook.log</codeph> files. If this option is specified,
and execution of the <codeph>dblook</codeph> command leads to the creation of
files with names identical to existing files in the current directory,
<codeph>dblook</codeph> will append to the existing files. If this option is not
set, the existing files will be overwritten.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt><codeph>-verbose</codeph></dt>
<dd><p>Specifies that all errors and warnings (both SQL and internal to
<codeph>dblook</codeph>) should be echoed to the console (through
<codeph>System.err</codeph>), in addition to being printed to the
<codeph>dblook.log</codeph> file. If this option is not set, the errors and
warnings go only to the <codeph>dblook.log</codeph> file.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt><codeph>-noview</codeph></dt>
<dd><p>Specifies that CREATE VIEW statements should not be generated.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></section>
</refbody></reference>
