<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<reference id="rtoolsijcomref20382" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Disconnect command</title>
<shortdesc>The <codeph>Disconnect</codeph> command disconnects from the
database.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Disconnect command</indexterm>
<indexterm>Database connection URL<indexterm>shortcut</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Disconnecting</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>Specifically, <codeph>Disconnect</codeph> issues a
<i>java.sql.Connection.close</i> request against the connection indicated on the
command line. There must be a current connection at the time the request is
made.</p>
</section>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title>
<codeblock><b>DISCONNECT [ ALL | CURRENT | <i>ConnectionIdentifier</i> ]</b></codeblock>
<p>If <codeph>ALL</codeph> is specified, all known connections are closed, and
there will be no current connection.</p>
<p><codeph>Disconnect CURRENT</codeph> is the same as
<codeph>Disconnect</codeph> without indicating a connection: the default
connection is closed.</p>
<p>If a connection name is specified with a <i>ConnectionIdentifier</i>, the
command disconnects the named connection. The name must be the name of a
connection in the current session provided with the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijpropref10135.dita">ij.connection.<i>connectionName</i></xref></codeph>
property or with the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref22318.dita">Connect</xref></codeph>
command.</p>
<p>If the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijpropref28146.dita">ij.database</xref></codeph>
property or the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref22318.dita">Connect</xref></codeph> command
without the <codeph>AS</codeph> clause was used, you can supply the name the
system generated for the connection. If the current connection is the named
connection, when the command completes, there will be no current connection,
and you must issue a
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref39198.dita">Set Connection</xref></codeph> or
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref22318.dita">Connect</xref></codeph>
command.</p>
<p>A <codeph>Disconnect</codeph> command issued against a
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> connection does not
shut down the database or
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> (but the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref33358.dita">Exit</xref></codeph> command
does).</p>
</refsyn>
<example><title>Example</title> <codeblock>ij&gt;<b> connect 'jdbc:derby:menuDB;create=true';</b>
ij&gt; -- we create a new table in menuDB: 
<b>CREATE TABLE menu(course CHAR(10), ITEM char(20), PRICE integer);</b>
0 rows inserted/updated/deleted
ij&gt;<b> disconnect;</b>

ij&gt; <b>protocol 'jdbc:derby:';</b>
ij&gt; <b>connect 'sample' as sample1;</b>
ij&gt; <b>connect 'newDB;create=true' as newDB;</b>
SAMPLE1 -    jdbc:derby:sample
NEWDB* -    jdbc:derby:newDB;create=true
* = current connection
ij(NEWDB)&gt; <b>set connection sample1;</b>
ij&gt; <b>disconnect sample1;</b>
ij&gt; <b>disconnect all;</b>
ij&gt;</codeblock> </example>
</refbody>
</reference>
