<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<reference id="rtoolsijproprefdatasource" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>ij.dataSource property</title>
<shortdesc>The <codeph>ij.dataSource</codeph> property specifies the datasource
to be used to access the database.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>ij.dataSource property</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>When specifying a datasource, <codeph>ij</codeph> does not use the
DriverManager mechanism to establish connections.</p>
</section>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title>
<p>
When you set the <codeph>ij.dataSource</codeph> property, <codeph>ij</codeph>
will automatically try to connect to a database. To establish a connection to a
specific database using <codeph>ij.dataSource</codeph>, set the
<codeph>ij.dataSource.databaseName</codeph> property. If you do not set
this property, <codeph>ij</codeph> will start with an error. If you want to
create the database, specify the <codeph>ij.dataSource.createDatabase</codeph>
property as well as <codeph>ij.dataSource.databaseName</codeph>. Do not
specify <codeph>ij.protocol</codeph> when setting
<codeph>ij.dataSource</codeph>, as that would activate the DriverManager
mechanism.</p>
<codeblock>ij.dataSource=<varname>datasourceClassName</varname>
ij.dataSource.databaseName=<varname>databaseName</varname>
[ij.dataSource.createDatabase=create]</codeblock>
<p>If you do not specify <codeph>ij.dataSource.databaseName</codeph> and get an
error indicating no database was found, you can still connect to a database by
using <codeph>ij</codeph>'s
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref22318.dita">Connect</xref></codeph> command. 
You should not specify the protocol (for example, <codeph>jdbc:derby:</codeph>)
in the <codeph>connect</codeph> command when using
<codeph>ij.dataSource</codeph>.</p>
</refsyn>
<example><title>Example</title> 
<p>In the following example, <codeph>ij</codeph> connects to a database named 
<codeph>sample</codeph> using an <codeph>EmbeddedDataSource</codeph>. The 
<codeph>sample</codeph> database is created if it does not already exist.
</p>
<codeblock><b>java -Dij.dataSource=org.apache.derby.jdbc.EmbeddedDataSource \
-Dij.dataSource.databaseName=sample \
-Dij.dataSource.createDatabase=create org.apache.derby.tools.ij</b>
ij version <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#vers/shortversionnumber"></ph> 
CONNECTION0*
* = current connection
ij> </codeblock> </example>
<section><title>See also</title>
<p>For more information about DataSources, refer to the JDBC documentation in
the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> API documentation
and to "JDBC reference" in the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph>,
and to "Using <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> as a
Java EE Resource Manager" in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citdevelop"></ph>.</p>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
