<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<reference id="rtoolsijcomref22318" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Connect command</title>
<shortdesc>The <codeph>Connect</codeph> command connects to the database
indicated by the <i>ConnectionURLString</i> argument.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Connect command</indexterm>
<indexterm>Creating a new database</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>Specifically, the command takes the value of the <i>ConnectionURLString</i>
(the database connection URL) and issues a <i>getConnection</i> request using
<i>java.sql.DriverManager</i> or a <i>javax.sql.DataSource</i> implementation
(see the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijproprefdatasource.dita">ij.dataSource</xref></codeph>
property) to set the current connection to that database connection URL.</p>
<p>You have the option of specifying a name for your connection. Use the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref39198.dita">Set Connection</xref></codeph>
command to switch between connections. If you do not name a connection, the
system generates a name automatically.</p>
<p>You also have the option of specifying a named protocol previously created
with the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref27997.dita">Protocol</xref></codeph> command
or the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijpropref12236.dita">ij.protocol.<i>protocolName</i></xref></codeph>
property.</p>
<p>If the connection requires a user name and password, supply those with the
optional user and password parameters.</p>
<p>If the command succeeds, the connection becomes the current one, and
<codeph>ij</codeph> displays a new prompt for the next command to be entered. If
you have more than one open connection, the name of the connection appears in
the prompt.</p>
<p>All further commands are processed against the new, current connection.</p>
</section>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title>
<codeblock><b>CONNECT <i>ConnectionURLString</i> [ PROTOCOL <i>Identifier</i> ]
    [ AS <i>Identifier</i> ] [ USER <i>String</i> PASSWORD <i>String</i> ]</b></codeblock>
</refsyn>
<example><title>Examples</title>
<codeblock>ij&gt; <b>connect 'jdbc:derby:menuDB;create=true';</b>
ij&gt; -- we create a new table in menuDB:
<b>CREATE TABLE menu(course CHAR(10), item CHAR(20), price INTEGER);</b>
ij&gt; <b>protocol 'jdbc:derby:';</b>
ij&gt; <b>connect 'sample' as sample1;</b>
ij(SAMPLE1)&gt; <b>connect 'newDB;create=true' as newDB;</b>
ij(NEWDB)&gt; <b>show connections;</b>
CONNECTION0 - jdbc:derby:menuDB
NEWDB* - jdbc:derby:anotherDB
SAMPLE1 - jdbc:derby:newDB
ij&gt;
ij&gt; <b>connect 'jdbc:derby:sample' user 'sa' password 'cloud3x9';</b>
ij&gt;</codeblock> 
<codeblock>ij&gt; <b>protocol 'jdbc:derby:';</b>
ij&gt; <b>connect 'memory:sample;create=true';</b></codeblock>
<codeblock>ij&gt; <b>protocol 'jdbc:derby:memory:';</b>
ij&gt; <b>connect 'sample;create=true';</b></codeblock>
</example>
</refbody>
</reference>
