<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rtoolsijcomref37862">
<title>Async command</title>
<shortdesc>The <codeph>Async</codeph> command lets you execute an SQL statement
in a separate thread.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Async command</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog><refbody>
<section>
<p>This command is used in conjunction with the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref17631.dita">Wait For</xref></codeph> command
to get the results.</p></section>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title>
<codeblock><b>ASYNC <i><xref href="rtoolsijcomref40155.dita">Identifier</xref>&nbsp;<xref href="rtoolsijcomref34110.dita">String</xref></i></b></codeblock>
<p>You supply the SQL statement, which is any valid SQL statement, as a
<i>String</i>. The <i>Identifier</i> you must supply for the async SQL statement
is used in the <codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref17631.dita">Wait
For</xref></codeph> command and is a case-insensitive <codeph>ij</codeph>
identifier. An identifier that does not specify a <i>connectionName</i> must not
be the same as any other identifier for an async statement on the current
connection; an identifier that specifies a <i>connectionName</i> must not be the
same as any other identifier for an async statement on the designated
connection. You cannot reference a statement previously prepared and named by
the <codeph>ij</codeph>
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref12333.dita">Prepare</xref></codeph>
command in this command.</p>
<p><codeph>ij</codeph> creates a new thread in the current or designated
connection to issue the SQL statement. The separate thread is closed once the
statement completes.</p>
</refsyn>
<example><title>Examples</title>
<codeblock>ij&gt; <b>async aInsert 'INSERT into menu values (''entree'',''chicken'',11)';</b>
ij&gt; <b>INSERT INTO menu VALUES ('dessert','ice cream',3);</b>
1 rows inserted/updated/deleted.
ij&gt; <b>wait for aInsert;</b>
1 rows inserted/updated/deleted.
-- the result of the asynchronous insert
</codeblock>
<codeblock>ij&gt; <b>connect 'jdbc:derby:memory:dummy;create=true;user=john'
    as john_conn;</b>
ij&gt; <b>create table john_tbl (c int);</b>
0 rows inserted/updated/deleted
ij&gt; <b>insert into john_tbl values(1),(2),(3);</b>
3 rows inserted/updated/deleted
ij&gt; <b>connect 'jdbc:derby:memory:dummy;user=fred' as fred_conn;</b>
ij(FRED_CONN)&gt; <b>async john_async @ john_conn 'select * from john_tbl';</b>
ij(FRED_CONN)&gt; <b>wait for john_async @ john_conn;</b>
C          
-----------
1          
2          
3          

3 rows selected
ij(FRED_CONN)&gt; 
</codeblock>
</example></refbody></reference>
