<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<reference id="rtoolsijpropref28146" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>ij.database property</title>
<shortdesc>The <codeph>ij.database</codeph> property creates a connection to the
database specified by the property when <codeph>ij</codeph> starts
up.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>ij.database property</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>You can specify the complete connection URL (including protocol) with this
property, or you can specify just the database path name and URL attributes if
you also specify
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijpropref35032.dita">ij.protocol</xref></codeph> on
the command line. After it boots, <codeph>ij</codeph> displays the generated
name of the connection made with this property.</p>
</section>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title>
<codeblock><b>ij.database=<i>databaseConnectionURL</i></b></codeblock>
<p>The database path name value in the <i>databaseConnectionURL</i> can be
either an absolute path name or a path name relative to
<i>derby.system.home</i>. For example, <codeph>thisDB</codeph>,
<codeph>databases/thisDB</codeph>, and
<codeph>c:/databases/2014/january/thisDB</codeph> can all be valid values.</p>
<p>The path separator in the connection URL is a forward slash
(<codeph>/</codeph>), even in Windows path names. The database name value cannot
contain a colon (<codeph>:</codeph>), except for the colon after the drive name
in a Windows path name.</p>
<p>When specified on the command line, the <i>databaseConnectionURL</i> should
not be enclosed in single quotes. However, if the connection URL contains
special characters (such as a space, or a semicolon on a UNIX system), it must
be enclosed in double quotes.</p>
</refsyn>
<example><title>Example</title>
<codeblock><b>java -Dij.protocol=jdbc:derby: \ 
-Dij.database="wombat;create=true" org.apache.derby.tools.ij</b>
ij version <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#vers/shortversionnumber"></ph>
CONNECTION0* -  jdbc:derby:wombat
* = current connection
ij></codeblock> </example>
</refbody>
</reference>
