<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<reference id="rtoolsoptdbreader" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Using the rawDBReader optional tool</title>
<shortdesc>The <codeph>rawDBReader</codeph> optional tool creates functions
and views, which can be used to extract data out of a corrupt or unbootable database
into a new, healthy database.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>optional tools<indexterm>rawDBReader</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rawDBReader optional tool</indexterm>
<indexterm>tools<indexterm>rawDBReader optional tool</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>

<title>Overview</title>
<p>
Derby is a stable, well-tested database engine. Nevertheless, it is possible for a Derby database to become corrupt.
If a Derby database becomes corrupt but remains bootable (for instance, a single index becomes inconsistent),
then the damage may be located by querying the <codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_CHECK_TABLE</codeph>
system table function and the damage may be repaired by running the <codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_COMPRESS_TABLE</codeph>
system procedure. These tools are documented in the <i>Derby Developer's Guide</i>.
</p>

<p>
However, if the database is unbootable, then the best approach is to restore the database from a recent backup.
If a backup isn't available, then you may be able to extract some data out of the corrupt database
by using the <codeph>rawDBReader</codeph> optional tool. The <codeph>rawDBReader</codeph> tool is not guaranteed to
retrieve all of the data. In some situations, the tool may retrieve data which was deleted before
the database became unbootable. The <codeph>rawDBReader</codeph> optional tool
is a last resort to salvage something.
</p>

<p>
When running the <codeph>rawDBReader</codeph> tool, you will work with two databases. Both of these databases
must be on the machine where you are running the tool.
</p>

<ul>
<li><b>corruptDB</b> - This is the corrupt or unbootable database whose data you are trying to salvage.</li>
<li><b>healthyDB</b> - This is a new database which you create in order to hold the retrieved data.</li>
</ul>

<p>
The rawDBReader tool works by copying all of your user data from the corrupt database into
a totally separate, healthy database. Each table in the corrupt database will be copied to
a fresh table in the healthy database. The healthy target table will have the same schema name, the same table name,
and the same column names as the original, corrupt table.
</p>

<p>
There are three steps to using <codeph>rawDBReader</codeph>:
</p>

<ul>
<li><b>load</b> - You call <i>SYSCS_REGISTER_TOOL</i> with
arguments specific to your situation. This will prepare
the healthy database to accept data from the
corrupt database. This will also generate a text
file containing a series of commands. This is the recovery script.</li>
<li><b>extract</b> - You then run the recovery script in order to
retrieve your data from the corrupt database and copy the data into the healthy database.</li>
<li><b>unload</b> - Finally, you can remove the tool via another call
to <i>SYSCS_REGISTER_TOOL</i>.</li>
</ul>

<p>
These steps are described in greater detail below.
</p>

</section>

<section>
<title>Loading the tool</title>

<p>
To run the <codeph>rawDBReader</codeph> tool, you must be
signed on to the machine where the corrupt database
resides. Your classpath must contain <i>derby.jar</i>, <i>derbytools.jar</i>, and
<i>derbyoptionaltools.jar</i>.
</p>

<p>
To load the <codeph>rawDBReader</codeph> tool, connect to the healthy database and issue the following statement:
</p>

<codeblock><b>
call syscs_util.syscs_register_tool
(
  'rawDBReader',
  true,
  $recoveryScript,
  $controlSchema,
  $schemaPrefix,
  $corruptDBPath,
  $corruptEncryptionAttributes,
  $corruptDatabaseOwner,
  $corruptDatabaseOwnerPassword
);
</b></codeblock>

<p>Where the arguments have these meanings:</p>

<ul>
<li><b>$recoveryScript</b> - The name of a file into which a recovery script will be written.</li>
<li><b>$controlSchema</b> - The name of a schema which will be created in the healthy database and which will hold
table functions and views for querying the core catalogs of the corrupt database.</li>
<li><b>$schemaPrefix</b> - A string which will be prefixed to the names of user schemas which will be created in the
healthy database. For every schema in the corrupt database, a corresponding schema will be created in the healthy database.
These schemas will hold functions and views which can be used to extract data out of the corrupt database.</li>
<li><b>$corruptDBPath</b> - The file path to the corrupt database directory.</li>
<li><b>$corruptEncryptionAttributes</b> - The encryption directives with which the corrupt database was created. May be null.</li>
<li><b>$corruptDatabaseOwner</b> - The name of the owner of the corrupt database.</li>
<li><b>$corruptDatabaseOwnerPassword</b> - The password of the owner of the corrupt database. May be null.</li>
</ul>

<p>
The schema prefix is just a tag which helps the tool create unique schema names that won't conflict
with the names of user schemas. The control schema is a separate schema whose name should not conflict with
any user schemas. If the corrupt database has the following user schemas...
</p>

<codeblock><b>
S1
S2
</b></codeblock>

<p>
...then the healthy database will have the following schemas after loading the <codeph>rawDBReader</codeph> tool
and after running the recovery script:
</p>

<codeblock><b>
S1
S2
$controlSchema
$schemaPrefixS1
$schemaPrefixS2
</b></codeblock>

<p>
For instance, if the corrupt database was created without encryption and without specifying a database owner,
then the following command would load  the <codeph>rawDBReader</codeph> optional tool:
</p>

<codeblock><b>
call syscs_util.syscs_register_tool
(
  'rawDBReader',
  true,
  'recoverMyData.sql',
  'CONTROL',
  'BAD_',
  'tmpdbs/corruptDB',
  null,
  'APP',
  null
);
</b></codeblock>

<p>
If, on the other hand, the corrupt database was created with encryption and with credentials for a database owner,
then you would load the tool with a command like the following statement:
</p>

<codeblock><b>
call syscs_util.syscs_register_tool
(
  'rawDBReader',
  true,
  'recoverMyData.sql',
  'CONTROL',
  'BAD_',
  'tmpdbs/corruptDB',
  'bootPassword=DBpassword',
  'dbo',
  'DBO_password'
);
</b></codeblock>

</section>

<section>
<title>Running the recovery script</title>

<p>
Loading the tool will write a recovery script containing statements which will create schemas and tables in the
healthy database. The schemas and tables correspond to the user schemas and tables in the corrupt database. The script will also
contain statements which extract data out of the corrupt tables into their healthy counterparts. Here's a
sample recovery script:
</p>

<codeblock><b>
connect 'jdbc:derby:tmpdbs/healthyDB';

create schema "S1";

-- siphon data out of c490.dat
create table "S1"."T1" as select * from "BAD_S1"."T1" with no data;
insert into "S1"."T1" select * from "BAD_S1"."T1";

create schema "S2";

-- siphon data out of c4a0.dat
create table "S1"."T2" as select * from "BAD_S1"."T2" with no data;
insert into "S1"."T2" select * from "BAD_S1"."T2";

-- siphon data out of c4b0.dat
create table "S2"."T1" as select * from "BAD_S2"."T1" with no data;
insert into "S2"."T1" select * from "BAD_S2"."T1";

-- siphon data out of c4c0.dat
create table "S2"."T2" as select * from "BAD_S2"."T2" with no data;
insert into "S2"."T2" select * from "BAD_S2"."T2";
</b></codeblock>

</section>

<section>
<title>Unloading the tool</title>

<p>
You can unload the tool after you have run the recovery script and copied data out of
the corrupt database into the healthy database. Note that you must specify the same control schema and schema prefix
which you specified when you loaded the tool:
</p>

<codeblock><b>
call syscs_util.syscs_register_tool
(
  'rawDBReader',
  false,
  'CONTROL',
  'BAD_'
);
</b></codeblock>

</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
