<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "../dtd/reference.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<reference id="rtoolsijpropref10135" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>ij.connection.<i>connectionName</i> property</title>
<shortdesc>The <codeph>ij.connection.<i>connectionName</i></codeph> property
creates a named connection to the given database connection URL when
<codeph>ij</codeph> starts up.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>ij.connection property</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>The property is equivalent to the <codeph>Connect AS
<i>Identifier</i></codeph> command. The database connection URL can be of the
short form if an
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijpropref35032.dita">ij.protocol</xref></codeph> is
specified. This property can be specified more than once per session, creating
multiple connections. When <codeph>ij</codeph> starts, it displays the names
of all the connections created in this way. It also displays the name of the
current connection, if there is more than one, in the <codeph>ij</codeph>
prompt.</p>
</section>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title>
<codeblock><b>ij.connection.<i>connectionName</i>=<i>databaseConnectionURL</i></b></codeblock>
<p>When specified on the command line, the <i>databaseConnectionURL</i> should
not be enclosed in single quotes. However, if the database path contains special
characters (such as a space), it must be enclosed in double quotes.</p>
</refsyn>
<example><title>Example</title>
<p>This example connects to the existing database <codeph>sample</codeph> and
creates, then connects to, the database <codeph>anotherDB</codeph>.</p>
<codeblock><b>java -Dij.connection.sample1=jdbc:derby:sample \
-Dij.connection.anotherConn=jdbc:derby:anotherDB;create=true \
org.apache.derby.tools.ij</b>
ij version <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#vers/shortversionnumber"></ph>
ANOTHERCONN* -  jdbc:derby:anotherDB;create=true
SAMPLE1 -        jdbc:derby:sample
* = current connection
ij(ANOTHERCONN)&gt;</codeblock>
</example>
<section><title>See also</title>
<ul>
<li><xref href="rtoolsijcomref22318.dita"/></li>
</ul>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
