<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "../dtd/task.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<task id="ttoolsij97656" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Connecting to a
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> database</title>
<shortdesc>To connect to a
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> database, you must
perform the following steps.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Start the JVM.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Load the appropriate driver.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Create a connection by providing a valid database connection
URL.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<example><p>When you use <codeph>ij</codeph> interactively to connect to a
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> database, you generally
supply connection information on the full database connection URL.
<codeph>ij</codeph> automatically loads the appropriate driver based on the
syntax of the URL. The following example shows how to connect in this way by
using the <codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref22318.dita">Connect</xref></codeph>
command and the embedded driver:</p>
<codeblock><b>java org.apache.derby.tools.ij</b>
ij version <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#vers/shortversionnumber"></ph>
ij&gt; <b>connect 'jdbc:derby:sample';</b>
ij&gt;</codeblock>
<p>If the URL entered contains Network Client information, the
<codeph>Connect</codeph> command loads the Network Client driver:</p>
<codeblock><b>java org.apache.derby.tools.ij</b>
ij version <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#vers/shortversionnumber"></ph>
ij&gt; <b>connect 'jdbc:derby://localhost:1527/sample';</b>
ij&gt;</codeblock>
<p><note>In these and subsequent examples, the databases are created in the
<i>derby.system.home</i> directory. For more information on the System
Directory, see the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citdevelop"></ph>.</note></p>
<p><codeph>ij</codeph> provides alternate methods of specifying part or all of a
connection URL: the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijpropref35032.dita">ij.protocol</xref></codeph>,
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijpropref28146.dita">ij.database</xref></codeph>, and
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijpropref10135.dita">ij.connection.<i>connectionName</i></xref></codeph>
properties. These properties are often used when a script is being used and the database
path name or the driver name is not known until runtime. The properties
can also to used to shorten the amount of information that must be provided
with the connection URL. The following are some examples of different ways
to supply the connection information:</p>
<ul>
<li>Supplying full connection information on the command line
<p>Specifying one of the following properties along with a valid connection URL
on the <codeph>ij</codeph> command line starts <codeph>ij</codeph> with the
connection already active. This mechanism is often used when running a SQL
script, so that the database path name can be specified at runtime.</p>
<ul>
<li><codeph><xref href="rtoolsijpropref28146.dita">ij.database</xref></codeph>:
Opens a connection using the URL provided</li>
<li><codeph><xref href="rtoolsijpropref10135.dita">ij.connection.<i>connectionName</i></xref></codeph>:
Used to open one or more connections. The property can appear multiple times
on the command line with different <i>connectionName</i>s and the same or
different URLs.</li>
</ul>
<p>This example shows how to create the database <codeph>myTours</codeph> and
run the script <codeph>ToursDB_schema.sql</codeph> by specifying the database
URL using the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijpropref28146.dita">ij.database</xref></codeph>
property.</p>
<codeblock><b>java -Dij.database=jdbc:derby:myTours;create=true \
    org.apache.derby.tools.ij \
    %DERBY_HOME%\demo\programs\toursdb\ToursDB_schema.sql</b>
ij version <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#vers/shortversionnumber"></ph>
CONNECTION0* -  jdbc:derby:myTours
* = current connection
ij> -- Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
-- contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
     <i>...output removed...</i>
ij> CREATE TRIGGER TRIG2 AFTER DELETE ON FLIGHTS FOR EACH STATEMENT MODE DB2SQL
INSERT INTO FLIGHTS_HISTORY (STATUS) VALUES ('INSERTED FROM TRIG2');
0 rows inserted/updated/deleted
ij></codeblock></li>
<li>Defining a Protocol and using a "short form" URL
<p>You can specify a default URL protocol and subprotocol by setting the
property
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijpropref35032.dita">ij.protocol</xref></codeph> or
using the <codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref27997.dita">Protocol</xref></codeph>
command. This allows you to make a connection by specifying only the database
name. This "short form" of the database connection URL defaults the protocol
(For more information, see
<xref href="ctoolsijtools16011.dita#ctoolsijtools16011/ctoolsabtproto"></xref>).
</p>
<p>This example uses the
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref27997.dita">Protocol</xref></codeph> command
and a "short form" connection URL:</p>
<codeblock><b>java org.apache.derby.tools.ij</b>
ij version <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#vers/shortversionnumber"></ph>
ij&gt;<b> protocol 'jdbc:derby:';</b>
ij&gt; <b>connect 'sample';</b>
ij&gt;
</codeblock></li>
<li>Specifying an alternate driver
<p>If you are using the drivers supplied by
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph>, you can specify the
driver names listed in <xref href="rtoolsijtools16879.dita">JDBC drivers
overview</xref>. However, the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> drivers are implicitly
loaded when a supported protocol is used, so specifying them is usually
redundant. You may find it useful to specify the driver if you need to reload
it after you have shut down the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> engine and deregistered
the driver.</p>
<p>To load a driver explicitly, use the <codeph>ij</codeph> command
<codeph><xref href="rtoolsijcomref39042.dita">Driver</xref></codeph> or specify
the JVM system property <codeph>jdbc.drivers</codeph>.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</example>
</taskbody>
</task>
