<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="csecapps49914" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Configuring Network Server authentication without SSL/TLS</title>
<shortdesc>If you do not encrypt network traffic with SSL/TLS, you can use
properties to specify the encryption of user names and passwords on the Network
Server side.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>org.apache.derby.jdbc.ClientDataSource.CLEAR_TEXT_PASSWORD_SECURITY</indexterm>
<indexterm>org.apache.derby.jdbc.ClientDataSource.USER_ONLY_SECURITY</indexterm>
<indexterm>org.apache.derby.jdbc.ClientDataSource.ENCRYPTED_USER_AND_PASSWORD_SECURITY</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<note type="important">Using SSL/TLS is strongly recommended for production
applications. Use the properties only under unusual circumstances.</note>
<p>When you run <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> in
embedded mode or when you use the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> Network Server, you can
enable or disable server-side user authentication. (Enabling user authentication
is strongly recommended.) However, when you use the Network Server, the default
security mechanism (<codeph>CLEAR_TEXT_PASSWORD_SECURITY</codeph>) requires that
you supply both the user name and password.</p>
<p>In addition to the default user name and password security mechanism,
<codeph>org.apache.derby.jdbc.ClientDataSource.CLEAR_TEXT_PASSWORD_SECURITY</codeph>,
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> Network Server supports
the following security properties:</p>
<ul>
<li>UserID: <codeph>org.apache.derby.jdbc.ClientDataSource.USER_ONLY_SECURITY</codeph>
<p>When you use this mechanism, you must specify only the <codeph>user</codeph>
property. All other mechanisms require you to specify both the user name and the
password.</p></li>
<li>Encrypted UserID and encrypted password:
<codeph>org.apache.derby.jdbc.ClientDataSource.ENCRYPTED_USER_AND_PASSWORD_SECURITY</codeph>
<p>When you use this mechanism, both password and user id are encrypted.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>The user name that is specified upon connection is the default schema for the
connection, if a schema with that name exists. See the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citdevelop"></ph> for more information on schema
and user names.</p>
<p>If you specify any other security mechanism, you will receive an
exception.</p>
<p>To change the default, you can specify another security mechanism either as a
property or on the URL (using the <codeph>securityMechanism=<i>value</i></codeph>
attribute) when you make the connection. For details, see
<xref href="csecappsclientsecurity.dita"/> and
"securityMechanism=value attribute" in the 
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph>.</p>
<p>Whether the security mechanism you specify for the client actually takes
effect depends upon the setting of the 
<codeph>derby.drda.securityMechanism</codeph> property for the Network Server. 
If the <codeph>derby.drda.securityMechanism</codeph> property is set, the 
Network Server accepts only connections that use the security mechanism 
specified by the property setting. If the 
<codeph>derby.drda.securityMechanism</codeph> property is not set, clients can
use any valid security mechanism. For details, see 
"derby.drda.securityMechanism property" in the 
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citadmin"></ph>.</p>
<section><title>Security mechanism options when user authentication is enabled on the 
Network Server</title>
<p>When user authentication is enabled in 
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph>, you can use either of
the following security mechanisms.</p>
<ul>
<li>Clear text user name and password security, the default</li>
<li>Encrypted user name and password security</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section><title>Security mechanism options when user authentication is disabled
on the Network Server</title>
<p>When user authentication is turned off in
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph>, you can use any of the
security mechanism options.</p>
<p>You must provide a user and password for all security mechanisms except
<codeph>USER_ONLY_SECURITY</codeph>. However, because user authentication is
disabled in the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> server,
the user name and password that you supply do not have to be among those
recognized as valid by
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph>.</p>
</section>
<section><title>Enabling the encrypted user ID and password security
mechanism</title>
<p>To use the encrypted user ID and password security mechanism, you need a Java
environment with a JCE (Java Cryptography Extension) that supports the
Diffie-Hellman algorithm with a public prime of 256 bits.</p>
<p>The Java Platform, Standard Edition (Java SE) requires a public prime of
512 bits or more.</p>
<p>To use the encrypted user id and password security mechanism during
JDBC connection using the network client, specify the
<codeph>securityMechanism=<i>value</i></codeph> connection property.
<note>If an encrypted database is booted in the Network Server, users can
connect to the database without giving the <codeph>bootPassword</codeph>. The
first connection to the database must provide the <codeph>bootPassword</codeph>,
but all subsequent connections do not need to supply it. To remove access
from the encrypted database, use the <codeph>shutdown=true</codeph> option
to shut down the database. See <xref href="cseccsecure24366.dita"/> for
more information.</note></p>
</section>
</conbody>
</concept>
