<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="csecintroderbydefenses" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> defenses against
threats</title>
<shortdesc><ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> provides
numerous defenses against security threats.</shortdesc>
<prolog></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>These defenses are described in the following table.</p>
<table>
<title><ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> defenses</title>
<desc>This table lists and describes defenses against threats, including who is responsible for implementing each defense.</desc>
<tgroup cols="5" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="1">Defense</entry>
<entry colname="2">Task Owner</entry>
<entry colname="3">Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="1">Java security</entry>
<entry colname="2">System Administrator</entry>
<entry colname="3">Using a Java <codeph>SecurityManager</codeph> and policy
file, the System Administrator can restrict the permissions granted to
user-written code. The System Administrator can also restrict the permissions
granted to <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph>
itself.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="1">SSL/TLS</entry>
<entry colname="2">System Administrator</entry>
<entry colname="3">The System Administrator can require that SSL/TLS be used to
encrypt network traffic between
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> clients and servers,
along the way raising an extra authentication hurdle.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="1">Encryption</entry>
<entry colname="2">Database Owner</entry>
<entry colname="3">A Database Owner can require that the data for an application
be encrypted before being stored on disk. This makes it expensive to steal and
corrupt the data.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="1">Authentication</entry>
<entry colname="2">Database Owner</entry>
<entry colname="3">Using usernames and passwords, a Database Owner can restrict
access to an application's data.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="1">Coarse-grained authorization</entry>
<entry colname="2">Database Owner</entry>
<entry colname="3">A Database Owner can divide an application's users into three
groups: those with no privileges, those with read-only privileges, and those
with read-write privileges.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="1">Fine-grained SQL authorization</entry>
<entry colname="2">Database Owner</entry>
<entry colname="3">By using SQL GRANT and REVOKE statements, a Database Owner
can further restrict access to fine-grained pieces of data and code.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</conbody>
</concept>
