<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
 
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="csecnativeotherprops" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>NATIVE authentication and other database properties</title>
<shortdesc>When NATIVE authentication is enabled,
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> behaves as if the
<codeph>derby.connection.requireAuthentication</codeph> and
<codeph>derby.database.sqlAuthorization</codeph> properties are also
set.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>user authentication<indexterm>NATIVE authentication</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>NATIVE authentication<indexterm>and other database properties</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>That is, a user name and password must be specified whenever a user connects
to a database, and object owners control access to database objects. See
<xref href="csecauthorfine.dita#csecauthorfine"></xref> for more information,
and see
<xref href="rseccsecurenativeauthex.dita"/> for an example of the use of NATIVE
authentication.</p>
<p>For maximum security, the passwords that users specify when they connect to
databases have an expiration date that you can modify by using the property
<codeph>derby.authentication.native.passwordLifetimeMillis</codeph>. The
password of the
<xref href="cseccsecuredbowner.dita">Database Owner</xref> never expires. By
default, ordinary user passwords expire after 31 days.</p>
<p>If a password is about to expire, or if the Database Owner's password is
near what would be the expiration date, 
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> issues a warning that
the password will soon expire (or, in the Database Owner's case, that the
password is stale). By default, the warning is issued if the password is due to
expire in one-eighth of the password's lifetime. For example, if the password
has a 31-day lifetime, the warning will be issued 3.875 days before the
expiration date. You can change this proportion by using the property
<codeph>derby.authentication.native.passwordLifetimeThreshold</codeph>.</p>
<p>Use the <codeph>derby.authentication.builtin.algorithm</codeph> property to
change the way passwords are encrypted when they are stored in the SYSUSERS
system table. The default algorithm is SHA-256. Two related properties are
<codeph>derby.authentication.builtin.saltLength</codeph> and 
<codeph>derby.authentication.builtin.iterations</codeph>, which can be used to
make the hashed passwords harder for attackers to crack.</p>
<p>See the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph> for details on these
properties.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
