<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
 
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="csecnativeenable" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Enabling NATIVE authentication explicitly</title>
<shortdesc>You can turn on NATIVE authentication explicitly by using a
property.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>user authentication<indexterm>NATIVE authentication</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>NATIVE authentication<indexterm>enabling</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>To do so, specify one of the following values for the
<codeph>derby.authentication.provider</codeph> property:</p>
<ul>
<li>NATIVE:<i>credentialsDB</i>
<p>This value tells <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> to
use <i>credentialsDB</i>, a dedicated database, to store user credentials. This
value must be set by using system-wide Java Virtual Machine (JVM) properties or
by using the <codeph>derby.properties</codeph> file; it cannot be set in the
database by using the <codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_SET_DATABASE_PROPERTY</codeph>
procedure. When this system-wide value is set, <i>credentialsDB</i> is used to
authenticate all operations. If an individual database holds credentials for the
<xref href="cseccsecuredbowner.dita">Database Owner</xref>, the global
credentials database is used only to authenticate system-wide operations such as
engine shutdown.</p>
<p>The value of <i>credentialsDB</i> must be a valid name for a database.</p>
</li>
<li>NATIVE:<i>credentialsDB</i>:LOCAL
<p>This value tells <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> to
use <i>credentialsDB</i> for system-wide operations, but to use an individual
database's SYSUSERS system table to authenticate connections to that database.
This value must be set by using system-wide JVM properties or by using the
<codeph>derby.properties</codeph> file; it cannot be set in the database by
using the <codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_SET_DATABASE_PROPERTY</codeph> system
procedure.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>See the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph> for details on the
<codeph>derby.authentication.provider</codeph> property.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
