<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="cseccsecuredbowner" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Database Owner</title>
<shortdesc>The term <i>Database Owner</i> refers to the current authorization
identifier when the database is created, that is, the user creating the
database. If you use NATIVE authentication, or if you manually enable or plan to
enable SQL authorization, controlling the identity of the Database Owner becomes
important.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>
<indexterm>Database Owner</indexterm>
<indexterm>Database Owner<indexterm>powers</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Database Owner<indexterm>permissions</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords></metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>When a database is created, the Database Owner of that database is implicitly
set to the authorization identifier used in the connect operation that creates
the database, for example, by supplying the URL attribute "user".  Note that
this applies even if authentication is not (yet) enabled. In SQL, the built-in
functions USER and the equivalent CURRENT_USER return the current authorization
identifier.</p>
<p>If the database is created <i>without</i> supplying a user (this is possible
only if authentication is not enabled), the Database Owner is set to the default
authorization identifier, "APP", which is also the name of the default schema.
See "SET SCHEMA statement" in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph> for details.</p>
<p>The Database Owner has automatic SQL level permissions when SQL
authorization is enabled. For more information, see
<xref href="csecauthorfine.dita#csecauthorfine"></xref>.</p>
<p>To further enhance security, when
<i>both</i>&nbsp;<xref href="cseccsecure42374.dita">authentication</xref>
and SQL authorization are enabled for a database,
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> restricts some
special powers to the Database Owner: only the Database Owner is allowed to
shut down the database, to
<xref href="tseccsecureunencrypteddb.dita">encrypt</xref> or
<xref href="tseccsecurenewkeyoverview.dita">reencrypt</xref> the database, or to
perform a full upgrade of the database. These powers cannot be delegated.</p>
<p><note type="attention">There is currently no way of changing the
Database Owner once the database is created. This means that if you plan to
run with SQL authorization enabled, you should make sure to create the
database as the user you want to be the owner.</note></p>
</conbody>
</concept>
