<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="cseccsecure863446" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Setting up <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> to
use your LDAP directory service</title>
<shortdesc>When specifying LDAP as your authentication service, you must specify
what LDAP server to use.</shortdesc>
<prolog></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>To connect to the OpenDS LDAP server, add the following lines to your
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> configuration file,
<codeph>derby.properties</codeph>. You may also want to store these properties
in your database and lock them down by setting the
<codeph>derby.database.propertiesOnly</codeph> property (see
<xref href="csecauthorcoarse.dita"/> for an example of how to lock down
database properties):</p>
<codeblock>derby.connection.requireAuthentication=true
derby.authentication.server=ldap://127.0.0.1:1389
derby.authentication.provider=LDAP
derby.authentication.ldap.searchAuthPW=<i>YOUR_SELECTED_PASSWORD</i>
derby.authentication.ldap.searchAuthDN=cn=Directory Manager
derby.authentication.ldap.searchBase=dc=example,dc=com
derby.authentication.ldap.searchFilter=objectClass=person</codeblock>
<p>Finally, start <codeph>ij</codeph> in the directory where you created your
<codeph>derby.properties</codeph> (this ensures that embedded
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> will come up with the
authentication settings listed above). Run the following commands:</p>
<codeblock><b>java org.apache.derby.tools.ij</b>
ij version 10.11
ij> <b>connect 'jdbc:derby:testdb;create=true;user=tquist;password=tquist';</b></codeblock>
<p>Verify that authentication works by trying to connect again, this time with
bad credentials:</p>
<codeblock><b>java org.apache.derby.tools.ij</b>
ij version 10.11
ij> <b>connect 'jdbc:derby:testdb;create=true;user=tquist;password=badpassword';</b>
ERROR 08004: Connection authentication failure occurred. Reason: Invalid authentication...</codeblock>
<p>When you set the property <codeph>derby.authentication.server</codeph>, you
can specify the LDAP server using just the server name, the server name and its
port number separated by a colon, or an <codeph>ldap</codeph> URL as shown in
the example. If you do not provide a full URL,
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> will by default use
unencrypted LDAP. To use SSL encrypted LDAP, specify a URL that starts with
<codeph>ldaps://</codeph>. For details on the
<codeph>derby.authentication.server</codeph> and
<codeph>derby.authentication.provider</codeph> properties, see the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph>.</p>
<p><note>If you run Java DB under a Java security manager, your policy file will
need to grant <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> the
privilege to connect to the LDAP server. To see how to do this, consult the 
policy file shown in <xref href="rsecpolicysample.dita"/>.
Specifically, you will need to grant <codeph>java.net.SocketPermission</codeph>
to <codeph>derby.jar</codeph>, so that the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> code is allowed to
contact the LDAP server to perform the authentication. See 
<xref href="csecembeddedperms.dita#csecembeddedperms"/> for more
information.</note></p>
</conbody>
</concept>
