<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<!--##### DO NOT CHANGE ANYTHING ABOVE THIS LINE #####-->
<concept id="csecappsclientsecurity" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Configuring Network Client authentication without SSL/TLS</title>
<shortdesc>If you do not encrypt network traffic with SSL/TLS, you can use
properties to specify the encryption of user names and passwords on the client
side.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Network Client security</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<note type="important">Using SSL/TLS is strongly recommended for production
applications. Use the properties only under unusual circumstances.</note>
<p>The <codeph>securityMechanism=value</codeph> property specifies a security
mechanism for the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph>
Network Client. See the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph> for details
on this property.</p>
<p>You can set the <codeph>securityMechanism</codeph> property in one of the
following ways:</p><ul>
<li>When you are using the <codeph>java.sql.DriverManager</codeph> class, set
<codeph>securityMechanism=<i>value</i></codeph> in a <codeph>java.util.Properties</codeph>
object before you invoke the form of the
<codeph>DriverManager.getConnection</codeph> method that includes the
<codeph>java.util.Properties</codeph> parameter.</li>
<li>When you are using the <codeph>ClientDataSource</codeph> interface to create
and deploy your own DataSource objects, invoke the
<codeph>ClientDataSource.setSecurityMechanism</codeph> method after you create a
ClientDataSource object.</li>
</ul>
<p>The following table lists the security mechanisms that the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> Network
Client supports, and the corresponding property value to specify to obtain this
security mechanism. The default security mechanism is the user id only if no
password is set. If the password is set, the default security mechanism is both
the user id and password. The default user is APP if no other user is
specified.</p>
<table>
<title>Security mechanisms supported by the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> Network Client</title>
<desc>This table lists, describes, and provides additional information about <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> network client security mechanisms.</desc>
<tgroup cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="15*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="57*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="28*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Security Mechanism</entry>
<entry colname="col2">securityMechanism Property Value</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Comments</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">User id and password</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><codeph>ClientDataSource.CLEAR_TEXT_PASSWORD_SECURITY</codeph>
(0x03)</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Default if password is set</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">User id only</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><codeph>ClientDataSource.USER_ONLY_SECURITY</codeph>
(0x04)</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Default if password is not set</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Encrypted user id and encrypted password</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><codeph>ClientDataSource.ENCRYPTED_USER_AND_PASSWORD_SECURITY</codeph>
(0x09)</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Encryption requires a JCE implementation that supports
the Diffie-Hellman algorithm with a public prime of 256 bits.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p><ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> provides two
ClientDataSource implementations. Use the
<codeph>org.apache.derby.jdbc.ClientDataSource</codeph> class on all supported
Java SE versions except Java SE 8 Compact Profile 2. On Java SE 8 Compact
Profile 2, use the
<codeph>org.apache.derby.jdbc.BasicClientDataSource40</codeph> class.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
