<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="csecjavasecurity" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Configuring Java security</title>
<shortdesc>The Java security manager lets you reduce the damage that your
application can do.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Using a security manager, the System Administrator can restrict how an
application cooperates with other applications running in the same virtual
machine (VM) or elsewhere on the same machine. When you run
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> under a security
manager, you can restrict the following:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Backups</b>: You control where the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> engine writes and reads
database backup files.</li>
<li><b>Imports and exports</b>: You control where the engine imports data from
and where it exports data to.</li>
<li><b>Jar files</b>: You control where the engine obtains jar files of
customer-coded functions and procedures.</li>
<li><b>Sockets</b>: You control what machines can connect to the server and
What machines the server can connect to.</li>
</ul>
<p>To take advantage of these powerful controls, first customize a copy of the 
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> security policy
template. You will find a template security policy in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> distribution at 
<codeph>demo/templates/server.policy</codeph>.</p>
<p><xref href="rsecnetservbasic.dita"/> shows this basic policy. It grants
permissions to both the <codeph>derby.jar</codeph> and
<codeph>derbynet.jar</codeph> codebases. To run
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> in embedded mode, you
must grant permissions to <codeph>derby.jar</codeph>. To run the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> Network Server, you
must grant permissions to both <codeph>derby.jar</codeph> and
<codeph>derbynet.jar</codeph>.</p>
<p><xref href="rsecpolicysample.dita#rsecpolicysample"></xref> shows a sample
customized policy file.</p>
<p>To customize the file, make the following edits:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>URLs</b>: Replace the <codeph>${derby.install.url}</codeph> variables
with a URL pointing to the directory that holds the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> jar files. For example:
<codeblock>file:///Users/me/javadb/lib/</codeblock></li>
<li><b>System home</b>: Look for instances of the string
<codeph>${derby.system.home}</codeph>. Replace them with the name of the
directory that holds your <codeph>derby.properties</codeph> file.</li>
<li><b>Tracing</b>: Grant
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> the power to manage a
directory tree that will hold server trace information. Look for the
<codeph>${derby.drda.traceDirectory}</codeph> variable and replace it with the
directory where the server should write its diagnostic traces. For more
information on <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> tracing,
see "Controlling tracing by using the trace facility" in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citadmin"></ph>.</li>
<li><b>Backups/imports/jars</b>: Look for the first instance of the string
<codeph>&lt;&lt;ALL FILES>></codeph>. Make two more copies of this line so that
there are three copies of this line in the file. On the first line, replace
<codeph>&lt;&lt;ALL FILES>></codeph> with the directory tree that you will use
for holding database backups. For example:
<codeblock>/Users/me/backups</codeblock>
<p>Similarly, on the second line, replace <codeph>&lt;&lt;ALL FILES>></codeph>
with the directory tree which you will use for staging imported/exported data.
On the third line, replace <codeph>&lt;&lt;ALL FILES>></codeph> with the
directory tree that holds the jar files of functions and procedures that you
will load into databases. For the detailed syntax of these lines, see the
API documentation for <codeph>java.io.FilePermission</codeph>.</p></li>
<li><b>Sysinfo</b>: The <codeph>sysinfo</codeph> logic appears redundantly in
several <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> jar files:
<codeblock>derby.jar
derbynet.jar
derbyclient.jar
derbytools.jar</codeblock>
<p>If you want to run the <codeph>sysinfo</codeph> command, you will need to
grant permissions to the first of these jar files that appears in your
classpath.</p>
<p><note>If you are running
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> by using the command
<codeph>java -jar derbyrun.jar</codeph>, the first relevant jar file in the
classpath is <codeph>derby.jar</codeph>. The template policy file grants these
permissions to <codeph>derbynet.jar</codeph>. Note that the template policy file
grants <codeph>sysinfo</codeph> the privilege to read all files in the system.
You can restrict this to just the directory that contains the jar files wired
into your classpath.</note></p></li>
<li><b>Sockets</b>: The template policy file accepts connection requests from
all hosts. You may want to restrict the template file's
<codeph>java.net.SocketPermission</codeph> to connections from a particular
subdomain. For details, see the API documentation for
<codeph>java.net.SocketPermission</codeph>. In addition, if you are using LDAP
authentication, then you must grant <codeph>derby.jar</codeph> the privilege to
connect to the LDAP server.</li>
</ul>
<p>This manual does not describe the Java security manager in depth. For more
information, see <xref format="html"
href="http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/"
scope="external"/>. In particular, you may want to read the
Security Architecture paper (<xref format="html"
href="http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/spec/security-spec.doc.html"
scope="external"/>)
and the Default Policy Implementation and Policy File Syntax information
(<xref format="html"
href="http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyFiles.html"
scope="external"/>).</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
