<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="cseccsecuresqlauthupgrade" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Upgrading an old database to use SQL standard authorization</title>
<shortdesc>An old, unprotected database can be shielded with authentication and
SQL authorization later on.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>upgrade</indexterm>
<indexterm>SQL standard authorization mode</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<section><title>Upgrading authentication and authorization</title>
<p>To protect a single-user database and convert it to a shared, multi-user
database, simply enable authentication and SQL authorization. To do this, first
turn on user authentication as described in
<xref href="cseccsecure42374.dita"/>. Make sure that you supply login
credentials for the <xref href="cseccsecuredbowner.dita">Database Owner</xref>.
In most single-user databases, the Database Owner is APP. However, the Database
Owner could be some other user if the original database creation URL specified
a user name; for details, see
<xref href="cseccsecuredbowner.dita">Database Owner</xref>. If you are unsure
about who owns the database, run the following query:</p>
<codeblock>select authorizationid from sys.sysschemas where schemaname = 'SYS'</codeblock>
<p>After enabling user authentication, turn on SQL authorization. To do this,
connect to the database as the Database Owner and issue the following
command:</p>
<codeblock>call syscs_util.syscs_set_database_property( 'derby.database.sqlAuthorization', 'true' )</codeblock>
<p>Now shut down the database to activate the new value of
<codeph>derby.database.sqlAuthorization</codeph>. The next time you boot the
database, it will be protected by authentication and SQL authorization.</p>
</section>
<section><title>Behavior of upgraded databases</title>
<p>You will notice the following behavior changes in your upgraded database:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Data</b>: Users can access data in their own schemas. However, users
cannot access data in schemas owned by other users. In particular, other users
cannot access data in schemas belonging to the Database Owner. The Database
Owner may need to GRANT access to that data.</li>
<li><b>Database Maintenance</b>: In a single-user database, anyone can run
maintenance procedures to backup/restore and import/export data. In the upgraded
multi-user database, only the Database Owner can perform these sensitive
operations.</li>
</ul>
</section>
</conbody>
</concept>
