<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
 
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="csecnativemanagecreds" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Managing users and passwords</title>
<shortdesc>To manage users and passwords,
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> provides a group of
system procedures.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>user authentication<indexterm>NATIVE authentication</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>NATIVE authentication<indexterm>managing credentials</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<ul>
<li>To create users for a database, the
<xref href="cseccsecuredbowner.dita">Database Owner</xref> calls
<codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_CREATE_USER</codeph>, which takes a user name and
password as arguments. This procedure can also be executed by a user or role
to which the Database Owner has granted sufficient privileges.</li>
<li>To remove a user, the Database Owner calls
<codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_DROP_USER</codeph>, which takes one argument,
the user name of the user. This procedure can also be executed by a user or role
to which the Database Owner has granted sufficient privileges.</li>
<li>To reset a forgotten or expired password, the Database Owner calls 
<codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_RESET_PASSWORD</codeph>, with a user name and
password as arguments. This procedure can also be executed by a user or role
to which the Database Owner has granted sufficient privileges.</li>
<li>To change a user's own password, any user can call the system procedure
<codeph>SYSCS_UTIL.SYSCS_MODIFY_PASSWORD</codeph>, which takes only one
argument, the password. Typically, a user calls this procedure when their
password is about to expire.</li>
</ul>
<p>See the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citref"></ph> for details on these
procedures.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
