<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "../dtd/task.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<task id="tsecsslclientkeycert" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating a client key pair and certificate</title>
<shortdesc>Follow these steps to create a client key pair and a client
certificate.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<steps>
<step>
<cmd>Choose a password for the key store.</cmd>
<info><p>Suppose you choose the password
<codeph>secretClientPassword</codeph>.</p></info>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>On the client system, issue the following command to create the client's
public/private key pair.</cmd>
<info><p>You will be prompted to enter the password plus some identifying
information (your input is marked <codeph><b>bold</b></codeph>):</p></info>
<stepxmp><codeblock><b>keytool -genkey -alias MyClientName -keystore ~/vault/ClientKeyStore</b>
Enter keystore password: <b>secretClientPassword</b>
What is your first and last name?
[Unknown]: <b>MyFirstName MyLastName</b>
What is the name of your organizational unit?
[Unknown]: <b>Proofreading Department</b>
What is the name of your organization?
[Unknown]: <b>Name of my bookstore</b>
What is the name of your City or Locality?
[Unknown]: <b>New York</b>
What is the name of your State or Province?
[Unknown]: <b>NY</b>
What is the two-letter country code for this unit?
[Unknown]: <b>US</b>
Is CN=MyFirstName MyLastName, OU=Proofreading Department, O=Name of my bookstore, L=New York, ST=NY, C=US correct?
[no]: <b>yes</b>


Enter key password for &lt;MyClientName&gt;
   (RETURN if same as keystore password):</codeblock>
</stepxmp>
</step>
<step><cmd>Next, create a certificate for this client. Enter the command all on
one line:</cmd>
<stepxmp><codeblock><b>keytool -export -alias MyClientName \
-keystore ~/vault/ClientKeyStore  -rfc -file ClientCertificate \
-storepass secretClientPassword</b></codeblock>
</stepxmp>
<info>This command creates a file called <codeph>ClientCertificate</codeph>.
Later, you will import this file into the server's trust store.</info>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>