<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
 
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "../dtd/task.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<task id="tseccsecurenewbootpw" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Encrypting databases with a new boot password</title>
<shortdesc>You can apply a new boot password to a
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> database by specifying
the <codeph>newBootPassword=<i>newPassword</i></codeph> attribute on the
connection URL when you boot the database.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>encrypting databases<indexterm>new boot password</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>databases<indexterm>encrypting, new boot password</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<prereq><ul>
<li>If the database is configured with log archival for roll-forward recovery,
you must disable log archival and perform a shutdown before you can encrypt the
database with a new boot password. </li>
<li>If any global transactions are in the prepared state after recovery, the
database cannot be encrypted with a new boot password.</li>
<li>If the database is currently encrypted with an external encryption key,
<xref href="tseccsecurenewextkey.dita">use the
<codeph>newEncryptionKey=<i>key</i></codeph> attribute</xref> to encrypt the
database.</li>
</ul></prereq>
<context><p>When you use the <codeph>newBootPassword=<i>newPassword</i></codeph>
attribute, a new encryption key is generated internally by the engine, and the
key is protected using the new boot password. The newly generated encryption key
encrypts the database, including the existing data. You cannot change the
encryption provider or encryption algorithm when you apply a new boot
password.</p>
<p>To encrypt a database  with a new boot password:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Specify the <codeph>newBootPassword=<i>newPassword</i></codeph>
attribute in a URL and reboot the database.</cmd>
<stepxmp>For example, if you use the following URL to reboot
the <codeph>salesdb</codeph> database, the database is encrypted
with the new encryption key and is protected by the password
<codeph>new1234xyz</codeph>:
<codeblock>jdbc:derby:salesdb;bootPassword=abc1234xyz;newBootPassword=new1234xyz</codeblock>
</stepxmp>
<info>
<p>If <xref href="cseccsecure42374.dita">authentication</xref> and
<xref href="csecauthorfine.dita#csecauthorfine">SQL authorization</xref> are
both enabled, the credentials of the
<xref href="cseccsecuredbowner.dita">Database Owner</xref> must be supplied as
well, since reencryption is a restricted operation.</p>
<p>After you change the boot password, be sure to check for
<codeph>SQLWarning</codeph>s. The change succeeded only if there were no
<codeph>SQLWarning</codeph>s or <codeph>SQLException</codeph>s.</p>
<p>If you disabled log archival before you applied the new boot password, create
a new backup of the database after the database is reconfigured with the new
boot password. For more information, see the section "Backing up and restoring
databases" in the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citadmin"></ph>, particularly
"Roll-forward recovery".</p>
</info>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
